# Machine Learning in Market Design

This course covers machine learning and mechanism design in the context of online markets.  In online markets; which include auctions, ride-sharing, online dating, advertising, and other applications; a market maker aims to provide a market mechanism that achieves good market outcomes even under the expectation of strategization on the part of the participants in the market.  The main themes of the course are a review of mechanism design, the role of machine learning in the design of mechanisms, and the role of machine learning in the participants’ optimization of their strategies.  Topics include: auction theory, game theoretic equilibrium, econometric inference, sample complexity, and expert and multi-armed bandit algorithms.

Lecturer: [Prof. Dr. Jason Hartline](https://sites.northwestern.edu/hartline/)

Bio: Prof. Hartline received his Ph.D. in 2003 from the University of Washington under the supervision of Anna Karlin. He was a postdoctoral fellow at Carnegie Mellon University under the supervision of Avrim Blum; and subsequently a researcher at Microsoft Research in Silicon Valley. He joined Northwestern University in 2008 where he is an associate professor of computer science. Prof. Hartline’s research introduces design and analysis methodologies from computer science to understand and improve outcomes of economic systems. Optimal behavior and outcomes in complex environments are complex and, therefore, should not be expected; instead, the theory of approximation can show that simple and natural behaviors are approximately optimal in complex environments. This approach is applied to auction theory and mechanism design in his graduate textbook "Mechanism Design and Approximation" which is under preparation.
