# Individual and Group Fairness in Machine Learning

This course will start by outlining why simple machine learning techniques, naively applied, can lead to unfair outcomes, even when there is no baked in bias in either the data or the algorithms specification. We will then describe two approaches to thinking about fairness in machine learning: individual definitions of fairness, and statistical definitions of fairness, together with the benefits and shortfalls of each. Finally, we will study a definition that achieves some of the best properties of both individual and statistical definitions of fairness, and analyze an oracle-efficient algorithm for training the optimal classifier subject to this fairness constraint.

Lecturer: [Prof. Dr. Aaron Roth](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~aaroth/)

Bio: Aaron Roth is the class of 1940 Bicentennial Term associate professor of Computer and Information Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania, affiliated with the Warren Center for Network and Data Science, and co-director of the Networked and Social Systems Engineering (NETS) program. Previously, he received his PhD from Carnegie Mellon University and spent a year as a postdoctoral researcher at Microsoft Research New England. He is the recipient of a Presidential Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers (PECASE) awarded by President Obama in 2016, an Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship, an NSF CAREER award, and a Yahoo! ACE award.  His research focuses on the algorithmic foundations of data privacy, algorithmic fairness, game theory and mechanism design, learning theory, and the intersections of these topics.  Together with Cynthia Dwork, he is the author of the book “The Algorithmic Foundations of Differential Privacy.”
